.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii mod_fdserv.4
.\"
.TH MOD_FDSERV 1 "MARCH 2002" FramerD "FramerD Documentation"
.SH NAME
mod_fdserv \- Apache module for persistent FramerD CGI servers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B LoadModule fdserv_module 
.I module_path
.B /mod_fdserv.so
.BR
.B AddHandler fdservlet .fdcgi
.BR

This implements the
.B fdservlet
handler for creating persistent FramerD processes for handling
CGI requests.

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B mod_fdserv
works with the Apache web server and the
.B fdservlet
executable to provide for persistent, multi-threaded (when available)
responses to CGI requests.  The
.B mod_fdserv
module is typically installed and configured in the webserver's
.B httpd.conf
file.  In particular, the line:

.B   AddHandler fdservlet .fdcgi

will declare that files with the suffix
.B .fdcgi
will be handled by mod_fdserv.

.SH Configuration

The following configuration commands are available for use in
.B httpd.conf
or
.B .htaccess 
files:

.IP FDServletExecutable filename
specifies the path to the
.B fdservlet
executable.  If unspecified, it assumes
.B /usr/bin/fdservlet.
Note that this can only be configured on a per server/per virtual host
basis.

.IP FDServletThreads n
Indicates the number of threads the underlying server should start
for responding to requests.  The default is five threads.

.IP FDServletPrefix pathname_prefix
Indicates the prefix to any sockets created by
.B mod_fdserv
and passed to
.B fdservlet.
It defaults to
.B /tmp/fdserv

.IP FDServletLogFile filename
Specifies the file to which servlet's stdout and stderr will be redirected.

.IP FDServletSocketFile pathname
Indicates the particular pathname to be used for the
socket for a particular document or script.  This does
not make sense to specify for a particular directory.

.SH BUGS
Doesn't work under WIN32 because of the lack of local (or "unix domain")
sockets.
Doesn't automatically restart when the servlet executable changes (requires
a restart).

.SH Revision Info
.B $Id: mod_fdserv.4,v 1.1 2002/05/29 18:38:01 haase Exp $
.SH AUTHOR
Ken Haase < kh@beingmeta.com >
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fdxml (1)
.BR fdcgi (1)
.BR mod_fdserv (4)

