# This is FramerD

**FramerD** is a platform and database for applications and services
which leverage knowledge and context to deliver complex personalized
results and interaction.

*FramerD* databases readily include millions of searchable frames with
multiple properties and relations.  These databases can be distributed
over multiple networked machines. FramerD has been deployed
commercially in contexts with high availability to tens of thousands
of users and largely maintained by in-house sysops administrators.

*FramerD* consists of four main components: 

* a **portable distributed object-oriented database** designed to
  support the maintenance and sharing of knowledge bases. Unlike other
  object-oriented databases, FramerD is optimized for the sort of
  pointer-intensive data structures used by semantic networks, frame
  systems, and many intelligent agent applications.

* a **Scheme**-based flexible and performant scripting language with
  special provisions for *Prolog*-style non-deterministic programming
  and other common AI programming tropes.

* a versatile text processing library for matching, search, and
  extraction; these are augmented by utilities for natural language
  functions such as word stemming, simple morphology, and
  quasi-phonetic transformations such as Soundex and Metaphone.

* a web application framework for implementing high performance web
  applications and services; this is based on native C libraries for
  parsing, generating, and transforming HTML, XML, and JSON
  documents. In this framework, web applications use a custom Apache
  module (`mod_fdserv`) to communicate with multi-threaded FramerD
  *servlets* using a binary wire protocol.

FramerD is implemented in ANSI C for Unix-based platforms including
Linux and macOS.  In addition, Java libraries have been implemented
for accessing FramerD databases and services directly from Java
applications.

## Background

The [first version](https://www.beingmeta.com/pubs/FramerD.pdf) of
FramerD was developed at [MIT's Media Laboratory](www.media.mit.edu)
by Ken Haase. The laboratory's support, especially from its *News In
the Future* program, is gratefully acknowledged. This version can be
downloaded from
[SourceForge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/framerd/).

Starting in 2005, [beingmeta](https://www.beingmeta.com/) began
developing a new version of FramerD with a focus on scalability both
down (to low-powered devices) and up (to multi-core high performance
servers and workstations). This included optimizing the underlying C
code for modern cache and pipeline-focused CPU architectures and the
introduction of finer-grained thread locking.

**beingmeta**'s FramerD implementation also provides a novel query
  optimization technique called *iterated partial evaluation*
  ([patent](https://www.beingmeta.com/pubs/ipeval_patent.pdf)) which
  can optimize complex high-latency queries by up to a factor of
  ten. The method uses progressively complete partial evaluations of a
  query to bundle together data references to both reduce the number
  of round trips and allow remote data sources to optimize retrieval.

## Native modules

FramerD provides loadable native (C-language) modules for:

* cryptographic functions, including public and private key functions;

* image manipulation (using the ImageMagick library), including
  transforms, compression, and conversion;

* access to MongoDB, MYSQL, SQLITE, and ODBC databases, including
  dynamic type conversion;

* QR code generation, EXIF image metadata extraction, HTML `tidy`ing,
  Markdown rendering, text hyphenation, ZIP file manipulation, and
  others.

## "Source" modules

FramerD comes bundled with modules written in it's native scripting
language (a variant of Scheme) to provide additional functions:

* access to many AWS (Amazon Web Services) APIs, including S3, SQS,
  SES, EC2 and others;

* libraries for DOM manipulation and processing, based on the
  representations generated by FramerD's native XML/HTML parser;

* a profiling library using FramerD's built-in primitives for
  execution profiling;

* many tools for accessing the BRICO semantic knowledge base;

* an extensible generic pathname facility (`gpath`) for working with a
  range of file-like data repositories (including S3, Dropbox,
  in-memory filesystems, zip files, and web resources);

* a facility for checking and generating JWTs (Javascript Web Tokens)
  including both symmetric and asymmetric (public key) signatures;

* various facilities for transforming objects to and from JSON
  (JavaScript Object Notation);

* modules for advanced parsing of times and numbers;

* a lightweight implementation of records (`ezrecords`);

* facilities for fine-grained logging of program activity;

* a simple syntaxing/compilation engine for speeding up FramerD
  scripts by 5-10x;

* various caching facilities for improving performance against
  resource-intensive functions or services;

* support for OAuth2 authorization and API access;

* HTTP access to CouchDB databases and RSS feeds;

* facilities for integrating with SOAP-based web services;

* interfaces to the APIs for Facebook, Gravatar, OpenLibrary,
  LibraryThing, Twilio (SMS), PayPal, and others;

