.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii fdscript.1
.\"
.TH FDCONFIG 1 "MARCH 2002" FramerD "FramerD Documentation"
.SH NAME
fdconfig \- manipulates FramerD configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fdconfig [
.I config_name
.B ] list

.B fdconfig [
.I config_name
.B ] locate

.B fdconfig [
.I config_name
.B ] get 
.I var

.B fdconfig [
.I config_name
.B ] set 
.I var 
.I value

.B fdconfig [
.I config_name
.B ] reset 
.I var 

.B fdconfig [
.I config_name
.B ] add
.I var 
.I val 

.B fdconfig [
.I config_name
.B ] use-pool
.I pool

.B fdconfig [
.I config_name
.B ] use-index
.I index

.B fdconfig [
.I config_name
.B ] use-server
.I function
.I port
.B @
.I hostname


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fdconfig
is used to maintain FramerD configuration files, which provide
configuration information for various programs.  A configuration file
specifies a set of global variable bindings which are used to initialize
different programs or modules.

If the initial
.I config_file
argument is
.B -profile
, then the current user's FramerD profile is accessed; if the
.I config_file
parameter is either not provided (e.g. the first argument is the
subcommand name) or is
.B -config
, the system-wide FramerD config file is accessed (this may require
special privileges).  Otherwise,
.I config_file	
is a filename to which
.B fdconfig
will append the suffix
.B .cfg

Certain of the commands require write access to the specified file or
create access to its directory (the file will be created if
neccessary).

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.IP "locate"
returns the absolute pathname of the specified configuration file.  This
is most useful for locating the system configuration file on the system.
.IP "list"
lists all of the variable bindings specified by the configuration file.
.IP "get var"
prints the binding for
.I var
specified by the configuration file.
.IP "set var val"
sets the binding for
.I var
in the configuration file to be
.I val
.IP "reset var"
removes and bindings for
.I var
in the configuration file
.IP "add var"
adds an additional value
.I val
to the bindings of
.I var
in the configuration file.  If there are no current bindings for
.I var
in the file (i.e. it has not been
.B set
), the additional value will be marked to be added to whatever
current values exist in the environment when the configuration file
is loaded.  This allows multiple configuration files to contribute
to the same global values.

.IP "use-pool pool"
adds the pool
.I pool
(which is either a filename or a server specification (see
.BR dtcall (1)
) to the configuration variable
.B %POOLS
which is used by the command line interface to FramerD databases (see
.BR fdd (1)
).
.IP "use-index pool"
adds the index
.I pool
(which is either a filename or a server specification (see
.BR dtcall (1)
) to the configuration variable
.B %INDICES
which is used by the command line interface to FramerD databases (see
.BR fdd (1)
).
.IP "use-server fcn_name port@hostname"
assigns the global value of
.I fcn_name
to be a
.B remote procedure
implemented by the server listening on
.I port
at
.I hostname.
.SH OPTIONS
.B fdconfig
is a script implemented by
.BR fdscript (1)
so its command line can contain interspersed bindings of the form
.I var
.B =
.I val
as well as options such as
.B -f
.I scheme-file,
.B -C
.I config-file,
or
.B -m
.I module
which can load arbitrary scheme files, config files, or modules.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The program reports file access errors.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH Revision Info
.B $Id: fdconfig.1,v 1.3 2002/07/10 00:13:11 haase Exp $
.SH AUTHOR
Ken Haase < kh@beingmeta.com >
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR framerd (7)
.BR make-file-index (1)
