.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii fdscript.1
.\"
.TH REPACK-FILE-INDEX 1 "MARCH 2002" FramerD "FramerD Documentation"
.SH NAME
repack-file-index \- reorganize a FramerD file index
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B repack-file-index [-q] [-v] <
.I file_index
.B > [
.I output_file
.B ] [--size
.I new_size
.B ] [--min
.I min_vals
.B ] [--max
.I max_vals
.B ] [--bsize
.I block_size
.B ]
.I filename
.B [
.I new_name
.B ] [
.I min
.B ] [
.I max
.B ] [
.I block_size
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B repack-file-index
reorganizes a FramerD file index by consolidating associations into
continuous blocks on disk, possibly increasing the number of slots in
the table, and reordering keys to prioritize keys with more values.
It also removes duplicate associations and sorts large associations
for more efficient processing upon retrieval.

FramerD file indices are designed to be updated incrementally, but such
incremental additions can leave related data spread throughout the file.
.B repack-file-index
reorganizes this data to save space and can dramatically improve performance
by reducing the number of file seeks required to retrieve the associations
for a given key.

.B repack-file-index
reads the file index stored in
.I file_index
and writes a new file index to
.I output_file.
If 
.I output_file
is not provided, the new index is written into a temporary
file and copied back into
.I file_index
when it is completely generated.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-q"
Run quietly, without progress reports to the console.
.IP "-v"
Run verbosely, without progress reports to the console.
.IP "--size size"
Create the new index file with
.I size
slots.  If size is the literal
.B keep
, the current size of the index is maintained.  If the size
specified is smaller than the number of slots, the minimum
number of possible slots is chosen.
.IP "--min min_vals"
Exclude keys associated with fewer than
.I min_vals
values.
.IP "--max max_vals"
Exclude keys associated with more than
.I max_vals
values.
.IP "--bsize block_size"
In order to improve performance, 
.B repack-file-index
reads blocks of values together and schedules its disk accesses
within any particular.  This incurs a memory cost as the number
of values in a block increases.  The
.I block_size
parameter can control this cost by using the smallest feasible block
size larger than
.I block_size
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The program reports an error if
.I filename
does not exist or does not contain a valid file index.  It also
reports an error if either
.I output_file
cannot be written or
.I filename
cannot be overwritten (whichever it needs to do).
.SH BUGS
The trimming of keys by max and min do not correctly register
repeated values.  If this is a problem, it can be worked around
by first repacking the file index without value bounds (removing
duplicate values) and then repacking with the desired bounds.
.SH Revision Info
.B $Id: repack-file-index.1,v 1.4 2002/07/10 00:13:11 haase Exp $
.SH AUTHOR
Ken Haase < kh@beingmeta.com >
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR framerd (7)
.BR analyze-index (1)
.BR make-file-index (1)
