fdexec(1) -- run a non-interactive FramerD program
=========================================

## SYNOPSIS

`fdexec` [<config>...] <file> [<config>...] [<args>...]

## DESCRIPTION

This uses the FramerD interpreter to process *file* after processing
the designated config entries. Config entries have the form
**setting**=*value* and may be either read by applications or execute
*config handlers*.

If *file* defines a procedure called `MAIN`, it is called on LISP
versions of the command line *args* (excluding config entries) 

Some config entries may generate useful side-effects defined by either
the FramerD core or loaded modules. Some useful built-in config
settings are:

* `LOADFILE=`*path*:
  loads the file *path* during startup.

* `MODULES=`*module name*:
  loads a FramerD module into the image and the default 
  environment.

* `LOADPATH=`*path*:
  specifies a search path for modules, as a colon
  separated list of patterns where the '%' character is replaced by
  the module name. For example `/opt/mods/%/module.scm:/opt/mods/%:`
  causes the system to look for a module `foo/x` in
  `/opt/mods/foo/x/module.scm` and `/opt/mods/foo/x.scm`. Paths can be
  relative to the current directory by starting with '.' and can also
  include ~home directory references.

* `LOGLEVEL=`*level*:
  specifies the default loglevel for notifications
  where level is either a positive integer or symbolic name (like
  `NOTICE` or `DEBUG` or `INFO`).

## DIAGNOSTICS

Returns 0 when exiting normally, 1 otherwise. It also displays a short
preamble on starting and reports its time and memory usage on exit.

## FILES

On startup, `fdconsole` normally reads an `.fdconfig` file from the
user's home directory (if it exists). It can include `MODULES` or
`LOADFILE` declarations. The loading of the `.fdconfig` file can be
suppressed via the environment variable `FD_SKIP_DOTLOAD` or the
config variable `DOTLOAD`.

## ENVIRONMENT

As with most FramerD programs, config variables can be set through
environment variables prefixed with `FD`, so `FD_LOGLEVEL` will set
the default loglevel.

# AUTHOR

Ken Haase <kh@beingmeta.com>

## SEE ALSO

fdexec(1), framerd_config(8)

