[comment]: # ( -*- Mode: markdown; -*- )
knapp(1) -- launch a Kno application based on a config file
=========================================

## SYNOPSIS

`knapp` [config=val]... config_file [config=val|arg]...

## DESCRIPTION

This invokes Kno to launch a configured application. `knapp`loads the
the config file *config_file* after processing any provided config
entries (which have priority of the contents of *config_file*). Config
entries on the command line have the form **setting**=*value* and may
trigger the execution of procedural *config handlers*.

The *config_file* normally specifies an `APPMODULE` which is used to
launch the application. This uses the function `main` defined in the
module.


Some config entries may generate useful side-effects defined by either
the Kno core or loaded modules. Some useful built-in config
settings are:

* `CONFIG=`*config file*:
  loads a config file and processes it's entries.

* `MODULES=`*module name*:
  loads a Kno module into the image and the default 
  environment.

* `LOGLEVEL=`*level*:
  specifies the default loglevel for notifications
  where level is either a positive integer or symbolic name (like
  `NOTICE` or `DEBUG` or `INFO`).

* `LOADFILE=`*path*:
  loads the file *path* during startup.

* `LOADPATH=`*path*:
  specifies a search path for modules, as a colon
  separated list of patterns where the '%' character is replaced by
  the module name. For example `/opt/mods/%/module.scm:/opt/mods/%:`
  causes the system to look for a module `foo/x` in
  `/opt/mods/foo/x/module.scm` and `/opt/mods/foo/x.scm`. Paths can be
  relative to the current directory by starting with '.' and can also
  include ~home directory references.

## DIAGNOSTICS

Returns 0 when exiting normally, 1 otherwise. It also displays a short
preamble on starting and reports its time and memory usage on exit.

## IMPLEMENTING SCRIPTS

`knapp` is often used as the *shebang* handler for a config file which
specifies a particular application and its parameters, e.g.

```
#!/usr/bin/knapp LOGLEVEL=5`
(APPMODULE kno/samples/listprimes)
```

## FILES

Unlike `knoc`, the interactive Kno console, `knox` does not read the
user's `.knoconfig` file, though this can be specified by the
**CONFIG** config setting.

## ENVIRONMENT

As with most Kno programs, config variables for `knox` can be
set through environment variables prefixed with `KNO`, so `KNO_LOGLEVEL`
will set the default loglevel.

# AUTHOR

Ken Haase <kh@beingmeta.com>

## SEE ALSO

knoc(1), kno_config(8)

