.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii fdmanager.8
.\"
.TH FDMANAGER 8 "MARCH 2002" FramerD "FramerD Documentation"
.SH NAME
fdmanager \- manages set of FramerD servers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fdmanager <
.I master_control_file
.B > [
.I pid_file
.B ] [
.I status_file
.B ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fdmanager
manages a set of FramerD servers whose control files are listed in
.I master_control_file
The program will restart any servers which terminate and will take care
of terminating the servers before it itself terminates.  Servers managed
by
.B fdmanager
will be launched from the directory in which their control file is found.

The PID of the program is written to either the specified
.I pid_file
or the file
.I master_control_file
.B .pid

A status report of the servers under the manager's control will be emitted
to either
.I status_file
or the file
.I master_control_file
.B .status.
This file contains process id's and network id's for managed processes,
as well as the server control file which spawned them.

.SH FILE FORMAT
The
.I master_control_file
consists of a series of entries describing individual servers.  The format
of an entry is:

.B [wait=
.I secs
.B ] [dependent] <
.I server_control_file
.B > [
.I arguments for fdserver
.B ]

The wait period
.I secs
specifies how long
.B fdmanager
will wait for this server to start.  (It knows that a server has
started when it writes its
.B .nid
file (see 
.BR fdserver (1)
).  If the server has not started in that time, it outputs a warning
(using 
.BR syslog (3)
and the standard error) and continues.

The flag
.B dependent
indicates that the server is dependent on the server before it.
In particular, if the preceding server terminates and is restarted,
the dependent server is forced to terminate and restart.

.SH OPTIONS
No options
.SH FILES
.B /etc/init.d/fdservers
.RS
this is the SYSV init script (used under many Unix systems) to
start
.B fdmanager
.RE
.I framerd_root/
.B servers
.RS
This is the default master control file used by the SYSV init
script.
.RE
.I master_control_file
.B .pid
.RS
contains the PID of the fdmanager process, unless otherwise specified.
.RE
.I master_control_file
.B .status
.RS
contains the status of the fdmanager's managed servers
.RE
.I server_control_file_base
.B .ppid
.RS
created in the directory where the server control files are found
and contains the fdmanager's PID.  E.G. if the server control file
.B /data/brico/brico.fdz
is specified in the manager's
.I master_control_file,
the file
.B /data/brico/brico.ppid
will contain the manager's PID.
.RE
.I server_control_file_base
.B .sleep
.RS
when a server terminates and this file is found in the server's directory,
.B fdmanager
will wait with restarting the server until the file has been removed.
It does this by forking a call to
.BR sleep (1)
whose interval is either 60 seconds or the integer found in the file
.I server_control_file_base
.B .sleep
This allows a maintainer to temporarily suspend a single server without
stopping
.B fdmanager
or its other servers.  This is done by creating the
.B .sleep
file and then killing the server (with SIGTERM, so that it will save
its pending state).
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH Revision Info
.B $Id: fdmanager.8,v 1.3 2002/07/10 00:13:11 haase Exp $
.SH AUTHOR
Ken Haase < kh@beingmeta.com >
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR framerd (7)
.BR fdserver (1)

