.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii fdscript.1
.\"
.TH FDSCRIPT 1 "MARCH 2002" FramerD "FramerD Documentation"
.SH NAME
fdscript \- start an FDscript interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fdscript [--noprofile] [--noconfig] [--noherald] [-x
.I charset
.B ] [-m
.I module
.B ]* [-f 
.I file 
.B ]* [-g
.I config_file
.B ]* [
.I var
.B =
.I val
.B ]* [
.I filename
.B ] 
.I arguments
.B ...
.BR

The module, file, config, and variable binding options may be intermixed
and are processed from left to right before 
.I filename
is loaded or the interactive interpreter is started.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fdscript
starts an fdscript interpreter either interactively or
by reading commands from the file
.I filename.
The scheme variables 
.B args
and
.B nargs
are bound to the specified 
.I arguments
provided on the command line.  The interpreter is interactive if either
.I filename
is not given or is either a single dash ("-") or a single dot (".").
In either case, the files or modules specified by the other options
are processed first, as are any Scheme variable assignments specified
on the command line.

If
.I filename
is provided and defines a Scheme procedure
.B main,
it is applied to the given
.I arguments
after
.I filename
has been read.

The additional
.I arguments
are interpreted with two special conventions.  An argument specified
by a single dollar sign ($) is bound to the entire standard input,
read as a string; an argument specified by a single dash (-), reads a
series of lisp objects from the standard input and binds the
corresponding argument to those objects as a
.I choice.

If
.I filename
is a single dash (-), the interactive read-eval-print loop will
proceed without any prompts, simply reading values and printing
results; if the argument is a single period ("."), a prompt will be
displayed but command line arguments after the period will be processed
into
.B args
Finally, if there is no filename argument, a prompt will be issued
when the interpreter is ready for a result and (if available) the GNU
readline commands will be available for input editing.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--noconfig"
Do not load the system configuration file
.IP "--noprofile"
When running interactively, do not load the users
.B .fdprofile
file
.IP "--noherald"
Do not output the FramerD library herald and copyright notice
.IP "-x charset"
.IP "--charset charset"
Use the character encoding
.I charset
as the default encoding, especially for interaction with the console
(stdio and stderr).
.IP "-m module"
Load the FDScript module
.I module
and have its exported symbols accessible to the
interpreter environment.
.IP "-c config_file"
.IP "--config=config_file"
Load the config file
.I config_file
into the global environment.  See
.BR fdconfig (2)
for more details.
.IP "-f scheme-file"
.IP "--file scheme-file"
Load the scheme file
.I scheme-file
into the default environment
.IP "var=val"
.IP "-Dvar=val"
Bind the global variable
.I var
to
.I val
.SH FILES
.I framerd.cfg
The system wide configuration file, in the common
installation directory.  See
.BR fdconfig (5)
and
.BR fdconfig (1)
for futher details
.I ~/.fdprofile
.RS
The users's individual configuration file
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP ALWAYS_BUSY
Determines whether, in interactive mode with a prompt, 
.IP FRAMERD_CONFIG
Overrides the default location of the system configuration file
.IP DEBUG_FRAMERD
Output a backtrace when an error occurs.
.SH CONFIG VARIABLES
.IP %DEBUG
Output a backtrace when an error occurs.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH Revision Info
.B $Id: fdscript.1,v 1.5 2002/07/10 00:13:11 haase Exp $
.SH AUTHOR
Ken Haase < kh@beingmeta.com >
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR framerd (7)
.BR dtcall (1)
