.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii fdserver.1
.\"
.TH FDSERVER 1 "MARCH 2002" FramerD "FramerD Documentation"
.SH NAME
fdserver \- start a FramerD server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fdserver [--local] [--read-only] [--log
.I log_file
.B ] [--trace 
.I trace_file 
.B ] [--access read-only | locking | run-with-scissors] [-m
.I module
.B ]* [-c
.I config_file
.B ]* [-f
.I scheme_file
.B ] 
.B ] [
.I var
.B =
.I val
.B ]* <
.I control_file
.B >
.BR

The module, file, config, and variable binding options may be intermixed
and are processed from left to right before the
.I control_file
is loaded.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fdserver
starts a FramerD server which is initialized by loading
.I control_file
which typically has the suffix
.B .fdz

The various options to
.B fdserver
set up the environment into which the control file is loaded.  The
server generally listens on one particular port on all of the network
addresses associated with the specified host (see below).  Once
started, the server can be accessed from any FramerD application,
including
.BR fdscript (1)
or from the command line using
.BR dtcall (1)

If
.B fdserver
is started as root, it does a setuid to the value of the environment
variable
.B FDSERVER_USER
and will setgid to the value of the environment variable
.B FDSERVER_GROUP.
If these variables are not defined, "nobody" and "nogroup" are used
instead.  This happens after the server initialization file is loaded.
If you really want to live dangerously, you can call the FDScript primitive
.B (SET-UID! "root")
to keep the server running as root.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-f scheme-file"
Load the scheme file
.I scheme-file
into the default environment
.IP "-m module"
Load the FDScript module
.I module
and have its exported symbols accessible to the
interpreter environment.
.IP "-g config_file"
Load the config file
.I config_file
into the global environment.  See
.BR fdconfig (2)
for more details.
.IP "var=val"
.IP "-Dvar=val"
Bind the global variable
.I var
to
.I val
.IP "--local"
Runs the server only on the localhost (127.0.0.1)
.IP "--access read-only | locking | run-with-scissors"
declares the kind of access control used for the data provided by
this server.  If the argument is
.B read-only
no modifications are permitted; if the argument is
.B locking
served indices may be modified and served pools may be locked
on an OID-by-OID basis, depending on whether the underlying database
(typically the file pool or file index) is writable.  If the value is 
.B run-with-scissors
the system performs no locking on individual OIDs, but provides write
access provided that the underlying database is writable.
.IP "--log file"
Writes log information, mostly connection opening and closing, to 
.I file
.IP "--trace file"
Writes detailed transaction records, including every remote call
and response, to
.I file
.SH FILES
The 
.I server_base
is the name of the control file without the 
.B .fdz
suffix.  It is used to generate several status files.

.I server_base
.B .pid
Contains the process id of the started server and
is deleted when the server exists normally.
.I server_base
.B .nid
Contains the server spec of the started server;
this can be used as an argument to
.BR dtcall (1) or within other FramerD applications.  It
is deleted when the server exists normally.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP FRAMERD_CONFIG
Overrides the default location of the system configuration file
.IP DEBUG_FRAMERD
Output a backtrace when an error occurs.
.IP FDSERVER_USER
When started as root, this environment variable specifies the
user which fdserver will actually run under.
.IP FDSERVER_GROUP
When started as root, this environment variable specifies the
group which fdserver will actually run under.
.SH CONFIG VARIABLES
.IP %DEBUG
Output a backtrace when an error occurs.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH Revision Info
.B $Id: fdserver.1,v 1.3 2002/07/10 00:13:11 haase Exp $
.SH AUTHOR
Ken Haase < kh@beingmeta.com >
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR framerd (7)
.BR dtcall (1)
.BR fdmanager (1)
