.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii fdscript.1
.\"
.TH FDCONFIG 1 "MARCH 2002" FramerD "FramerD Documentation"
.SH NAME
fdconfig \- manipulates FramerD configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fdxs cflags

.B fdxs modules

.B fdxs libs

.B fdxs install [
.I module
.B .so | 
.I module
.B .fdx |
.I directory
.B ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fdxs
is a utility script used to access configuration variables
from the FramerD installation and to allow the compilation and
installation of programs using the local installation.

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.IP "cflags"
returns compiler flags to use when compiling programs to link
against the FramerD library.  This can be used inline, as in

.B gcc `fdxs cflags` -o myprog myprog.c

.IP "modules"
returns the system directory where FramerD modules live, this
also can be used inline as in:

.B cp mymodule.so `fdxs modules`

.IP "libs"
returns the arguments for linking against the FramerD system
libraries.  This can also be used inline.

.IP "install"
installs its argument in the FramerD modules system directory.  If the
argument is a directory, this results in a recursive copy of the directory,
excluding only CVS files.
.SH OPTIONS
.B fdconfig
is a script implemented by
.BR fdscript (1)
so its command line can contain interspersed bindings of the form
.I var
.B =
.I val
as well as options such as
.B -f
.I scheme-file,
.B -C
.I config-file,
or
.B -m
.I module
which can load arbitrary scheme files, config files, or modules.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The program reports file access errors.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH Revision Info
.B $Id: fdxs.1,v 1.3 2002/07/10 00:13:11 haase Exp $
.SH AUTHOR
Ken Haase < kh@beingmeta.com >
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR framerd (7)
.BR make-file-index (1)
